[Music]
[Music] now it happened one day that Jonathan
now it happened one day that Jonathan
now it happened one day that Jonathan the son of Saul said to the young man
the son of Saul said to the young man
the son of Saul said to the young man who bore his armor come let us go over
who bore his armor come let us go over
who bore his armor come let us go over to the Philistines garrison that is on
to the Philistines garrison that is on
to the Philistines garrison that is on the other side but he did not tell his
the other side but he did not tell his
the other side but he did not tell his father and Saul was sitting in the
father and Saul was sitting in the
father and Saul was sitting in the outskirts of Gibeah under a pomegranate
outskirts of Gibeah under a pomegranate
outskirts of Gibeah under a pomegranate tree which is in Migra the people who
tree which is in Migra the people who
tree which is in Migra the people who were with him were about six hundred men
were with him were about six hundred men
were with him were about six hundred men a Hydra the son of a high tub Ichabod's
a Hydra the son of a high tub Ichabod's
a Hydra the son of a high tub Ichabod's brother the son of Phineas the son of
brother the son of Phineas the son of
brother the son of Phineas the son of Eli the Lord's priest in Shiloh was
Eli the Lord's priest in Shiloh was
Eli the Lord's priest in Shiloh was wearing an ephah but the people did not
wearing an ephah but the people did not
wearing an ephah but the people did not know that Jonathan had gone between the
know that Jonathan had gone between the
know that Jonathan had gone between the passes by which Jonathan sought to go
passes by which Jonathan sought to go
passes by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistines garrison there
over to the Philistines garrison there
over to the Philistines garrison there was a sharp rock on one side and a sharp
was a sharp rock on one side and a sharp
was a sharp rock on one side and a sharp rock on the other side and the name of
rock on the other side and the name of
rock on the other side and the name of one was boses and the name of the other
one was boses and the name of the other
one was boses and the name of the other Sina the front of one faced northward
Sina the front of one faced northward
Sina the front of one faced northward opposite mcNeish and the other
opposite mcNeish and the other
opposite mcNeish and the other Southwood opposite Gibeah then Jonathan
Southwood opposite Gibeah then Jonathan
Southwood opposite Gibeah then Jonathan said to the young man who bore his armor
said to the young man who bore his armor
said to the young man who bore his armor come let us go over to the garrison of
come let us go over to the garrison of
come let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised it may be that the
these uncircumcised it may be that the
these uncircumcised it may be that the Lord will work for us for nothing
Lord will work for us for nothing
Lord will work for us for nothing restrains the Lord from saving by many
restrains the Lord from saving by many
restrains the Lord from saving by many or by few so his armor-bearer said to
or by few so his armor-bearer said to
or by few so his armor-bearer said to him do all that is in your heart go then
him do all that is in your heart go then
him do all that is in your heart go then Here I am with you
Here I am with you
Here I am with you according to your heart very well let us
according to your heart very well let us
according to your heart very well let us cross over to these men and we will show
cross over to these men and we will show
cross over to these men and we will show ourselves to them if they say thus to us
ourselves to them if they say thus to us
ourselves to them if they say thus to us wait until we come to you then we will
wait until we come to you then we will
wait until we come to you then we will stand still in our place and not go up
stand still in our place and not go up
stand still in our place and not go up to them but if they say thus come up to
to them but if they say thus come up to
to them but if they say thus come up to us then we will go up for the Lord has
us then we will go up for the Lord has
us then we will go up for the Lord has delivered them into our hand and this
delivered them into our hand and this
delivered them into our hand and this will be a sign to us so both of them
will be a sign to us so both of them
will be a sign to us so both of them showed themselves to the garrison of the
showed themselves to the garrison of the
showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines and the Philistine said look
Philistines and the Philistine said look
Philistines and the Philistine said look the Hebrews are coming out of the holes
the Hebrews are coming out of the holes
the Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have hidden then the men of
where they have hidden then the men of
where they have hidden then the men of the garrison called to Jonathan and his
the garrison called to Jonathan and his
the garrison called to Jonathan and his armor-bearer come up to us and we will
armor-bearer come up to us and we will
armor-bearer come up to us and we will show you something Jonathan said to his
show you something Jonathan said to his
show you something Jonathan said to his armor-bearer
armor-bearer
armor-bearer come up after me for the Lord has
come up after me for the Lord has
come up after me for the Lord has delivered them into the hand of Israel
delivered them into the hand of Israel
delivered them into the hand of Israel and Jonathan climbed up on his hands and
and Jonathan climbed up on his hands and
and Jonathan climbed up on his hands and knees with his armor-bearer
knees with his armor-bearer
knees with his armor-bearer after him and they fell before Jonathan
after him and they fell before Jonathan
after him and they fell before Jonathan and as he came after him his
and as he came after him his
and as he came after him his armor-bearer killed
armor-bearer killed
armor-bearer killed that first slaughter which Jonathan and
that first slaughter which Jonathan and
that first slaughter which Jonathan and his armor-bearer made was about 20 men
his armor-bearer made was about 20 men
his armor-bearer made was about 20 men within about half an acre of land and
within about half an acre of land and
within about half an acre of land and there was a trembling in the camp in the
there was a trembling in the camp in the
there was a trembling in the camp in the field and among all the people the
field and among all the people the
field and among all the people the garrison and the Raiders also trembled
garrison and the Raiders also trembled
garrison and the Raiders also trembled and the earth quaked survived it was a
and the earth quaked survived it was a
and the earth quaked survived it was a very great trembling now the watchman of
very great trembling now the watchman of
very great trembling now the watchman of soul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked and
soul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked and
soul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked and there was the multitude melting away and
there was the multitude melting away and
there was the multitude melting away and they went here and there and soul said
they went here and there and soul said
they went here and there and soul said to the people who were with him now call
to the people who were with him now call
to the people who were with him now call the roll and see who has gone from us
the roll and see who has gone from us
the roll and see who has gone from us and when they had called the roll
and when they had called the roll
and when they had called the roll surprisingly Jonathan and his
surprisingly Jonathan and his
surprisingly Jonathan and his armor-bearer were not there and soul
armor-bearer were not there and soul
armor-bearer were not there and soul said to a Hydra bring the Ark of God
said to a Hydra bring the Ark of God
said to a Hydra bring the Ark of God here for at that time the Ark of God was
here for at that time the Ark of God was
here for at that time the Ark of God was with the children of Israel now it
with the children of Israel now it
with the children of Israel now it happened while Saul talked to the priest
happened while Saul talked to the priest
happened while Saul talked to the priest that the noise which was in the camp of
that the noise which was in the camp of
that the noise which was in the camp of the Philistines continued to increase so
the Philistines continued to increase so
the Philistines continued to increase so Saul said to the priest withdraw your
Saul said to the priest withdraw your
Saul said to the priest withdraw your hand then Saul and all the people who
hand then Saul and all the people who
hand then Saul and all the people who are with him assembled and they went to
are with him assembled and they went to
are with him assembled and they went to the battle and indeed every man's sword
the battle and indeed every man's sword
the battle and indeed every man's sword was against his neighbor and there was
was against his neighbor and there was
was against his neighbor and there was very great confusion
very great confusion
very great confusion moreover the Hebrews who were with the
moreover the Hebrews who were with the
moreover the Hebrews who were with the Philistines before that time who went up
Philistines before that time who went up
Philistines before that time who went up with them into the camp from the
with them into the camp from the
with them into the camp from the surrounding country they also joined the
surrounding country they also joined the
surrounding country they also joined the Israelites who were with Saul and
Israelites who were with Saul and
Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan
Jonathan
Jonathan likewise all the men of Israel who would
likewise all the men of Israel who would
likewise all the men of Israel who would hidden in the mountains of Ephraim when
hidden in the mountains of Ephraim when
hidden in the mountains of Ephraim when they heard that the Philistines fled
they heard that the Philistines fled
they heard that the Philistines fled they also followed hard after them in
they also followed hard after them in
they also followed hard after them in the battle so the Lord saved Israel that
the battle so the Lord saved Israel that
the battle so the Lord saved Israel that day and the battle shifted to Beth Haven
day and the battle shifted to Beth Haven
day and the battle shifted to Beth Haven and the men of Israel were distressed
and the men of Israel were distressed
and the men of Israel were distressed that day for Saul had placed the people
that day for Saul had placed the people
that day for Saul had placed the people under oath saying cursed is the man who
under oath saying cursed is the man who
under oath saying cursed is the man who eats any food until evening before I
eats any food until evening before I
eats any food until evening before I have taken vengeance on my enemies so
have taken vengeance on my enemies so
have taken vengeance on my enemies so none of the people tasted food now all
none of the people tasted food now all
none of the people tasted food now all the people of the land came to a forest
the people of the land came to a forest
the people of the land came to a forest and there was honey on the ground and
and there was honey on the ground and
and there was honey on the ground and when the people had come into the woods
when the people had come into the woods
when the people had come into the woods there was the honey tripping but no one
there was the honey tripping but no one
there was the honey tripping but no one put his hand to his mouth for the people
put his hand to his mouth for the people
put his hand to his mouth for the people fear the oath but Jonathan had not heard
fear the oath but Jonathan had not heard
fear the oath but Jonathan had not heard his father charged the people with the
his father charged the people with the
his father charged the people with the oath
oath
oath therefore he stretched out the end of
therefore he stretched out the end of
therefore he stretched out the end of the rod that was in his hand and dipped
the rod that was in his hand and dipped
the rod that was in his hand and dipped it in a honeycomb and put his hand to
it in a honeycomb and put his hand to
it in a honeycomb and put his hand to his mouth and his countenance brightened
his mouth and his countenance brightened
his mouth and his countenance brightened then one of the people said your father
then one of the people said your father
then one of the people said your father strictly charged the people with an oath
strictly charged the people with an oath
strictly charged the people with an oath saying cursed it is the man who eats
saying cursed it is the man who eats
saying cursed it is the man who eats food this day and the people were faint
food this day and the people were faint
food this day and the people were faint but Jonathan said my father has troubled
but Jonathan said my father has troubled
but Jonathan said my father has troubled the land look now how my countenance has
the land look now how my countenance has
the land look now how my countenance has brightened because I tasted a little of
brightened because I tasted a little of
brightened because I tasted a little of this honey
this honey
this honey how much better if the people had eaten
how much better if the people had eaten
how much better if the people had eaten freely today of the spoil of their
freely today of the spoil of their
freely today of the spoil of their enemies which they found for now would
enemies which they found for now would
enemies which they found for now would there not have been a much greater
there not have been a much greater
there not have been a much greater slaughter among the Philistines
slaughter among the Philistines
slaughter among the Philistines now they had driven back with
now they had driven back with
now they had driven back with Philistines that day from McMaster
Philistines that day from McMaster
Philistines that day from McMaster Agilent so the people were very faint
Agilent so the people were very faint
Agilent so the people were very faint and the people rushed on the spoil and
and the people rushed on the spoil and
and the people rushed on the spoil and took sheep oxen and calves and
took sheep oxen and calves and
took sheep oxen and calves and slaughtered them on the ground and the
slaughtered them on the ground and the
slaughtered them on the ground and the people ate with the blood
people ate with the blood
people ate with the blood then they told Sol look the people are
then they told Sol look the people are
then they told Sol look the people are sinning against the Lord by eating with
sinning against the Lord by eating with
sinning against the Lord by eating with the blood you have dealt treacherously
the blood you have dealt treacherously
the blood you have dealt treacherously roll a large stone to me this day
roll a large stone to me this day
roll a large stone to me this day disperse yourselves among the people and
disperse yourselves among the people and
disperse yourselves among the people and say to them bring me here every man's ox
say to them bring me here every man's ox
say to them bring me here every man's ox and every man's sheep slaughter them
and every man's sheep slaughter them
and every man's sheep slaughter them here and eat and do not sin against the
here and eat and do not sin against the
here and eat and do not sin against the Lord by eating with the blood so every
Lord by eating with the blood so every
Lord by eating with the blood so every one of the people brought his ox with
one of the people brought his ox with
one of the people brought his ox with him that night and slaughtered it there
him that night and slaughtered it there
him that night and slaughtered it there then Saul
then Saul
then Saul built an altar to the Lord this was the
built an altar to the Lord this was the
built an altar to the Lord this was the first altar that he built to the Lord
first altar that he built to the Lord
first altar that he built to the Lord let us go down after the Philistines by
let us go down after the Philistines by
let us go down after the Philistines by night and plunder them until the morning
night and plunder them until the morning
night and plunder them until the morning light and let us not leave a man of them
light and let us not leave a man of them
light and let us not leave a man of them and they said do whatever seems good to
and they said do whatever seems good to
and they said do whatever seems good to you then the priest said let us draw
you then the priest said let us draw
you then the priest said let us draw near to God here so Saul asked counsel
near to God here so Saul asked counsel
near to God here so Saul asked counsel of God shall I go down after the
of God shall I go down after the
of God shall I go down after the Philistines will you deliver them into
Philistines will you deliver them into
Philistines will you deliver them into the hand of Israel
the hand of Israel
the hand of Israel but he did not answer him that day come
but he did not answer him that day come
but he did not answer him that day come over here all you Chiefs of the people
over here all you Chiefs of the people
over here all you Chiefs of the people and know and see what this scene was
and know and see what this scene was
and know and see what this scene was today for as the Lord lives who saves
today for as the Lord lives who saves
today for as the Lord lives who saves Israel though it be in Jonathan my son
Israel though it be in Jonathan my son
Israel though it be in Jonathan my son he shall surely die but not a man among
he shall surely die but not a man among
he shall surely die but not a man among all the people answered him then he said
all the people answered him then he said
all the people answered him then he said to all Israel you'll be on one side and
to all Israel you'll be on one side and
to all Israel you'll be on one side and my son Jonathan and I will be on the
my son Jonathan and I will be on the
my son Jonathan and I will be on the other side and the people said to Saul
other side and the people said to Saul
other side and the people said to Saul do what seems good to you
do what seems good to you
do what seems good to you therefore Saul said to the Lord God of
therefore Saul said to the Lord God of
therefore Saul said to the Lord God of Israel if a perfect lot so Saul and
Israel if a perfect lot so Saul and
Israel if a perfect lot so Saul and Jonathan were taken but the people
Jonathan were taken but the people
Jonathan were taken but the people escaped and Saul said cast lots between
escaped and Saul said cast lots between
escaped and Saul said cast lots between my son Jonathan and me so Jonathan was
my son Jonathan and me so Jonathan was
my son Jonathan and me so Jonathan was taken then Saul said to Jonathan tell me
taken then Saul said to Jonathan tell me
taken then Saul said to Jonathan tell me what you have done
what you have done
what you have done I only tasted a little honey with the
I only tasted a little honey with the
I only tasted a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand so
end of the rod that was in my hand so
end of the rod that was in my hand so now I must die God do soo and more also
now I must die God do soo and more also
now I must die God do soo and more also for you shall surely die
for you shall surely die
for you shall surely die Jonathan but the people said to Saul
Jonathan but the people said to Saul
Jonathan but the people said to Saul shall Jonathan die who has accomplished
shall Jonathan die who has accomplished
shall Jonathan die who has accomplished this great deliverance in Israel
this great deliverance in Israel
this great deliverance in Israel certainly not as the Lord lives not one
certainly not as the Lord lives not one
certainly not as the Lord lives not one hair of his head shall fall to the
hair of his head shall fall to the
hair of his head shall fall to the ground for he has work with God this day
ground for he has work with God this day
ground for he has work with God this day so the people rescued Jonathan and he
so the people rescued Jonathan and he
so the people rescued Jonathan and he did not die then Saul returned from
did not die then Saul returned from
did not die then Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines and the
pursuing the Philistines and the
pursuing the Philistines and the Philistines went to their own place so
Philistines went to their own place so
Philistines went to their own place so Saul established his sovereignty over
Saul established his sovereignty over
Saul established his sovereignty over Israel and fought against all his
Israel and fought against all his
Israel and fought against all his enemies on every side against Moab
enemies on every side against Moab
enemies on every side against Moab against the people of Ammon against Edom
against the people of Ammon against Edom
against the people of Ammon against Edom against the kings of Zuber and against
against the kings of Zuber and against
against the kings of Zuber and against the Philistines wherever he turned he
the Philistines wherever he turned he
the Philistines wherever he turned he harassed them and he gathered an army
harassed them and he gathered an army
harassed them and he gathered an army and attacked the Amalekites and
and attacked the Amalekites and
and attacked the Amalekites and delivered Israel from the hands of those
delivered Israel from the hands of those
delivered Israel from the hands of those who plundered them the sons of Saul were
who plundered them the sons of Saul were
who plundered them the sons of Saul were Jonathan Joshua and Malka sure and the
Jonathan Joshua and Malka sure and the
Jonathan Joshua and Malka sure and the names of his two daughters were these
names of his two daughters were these
names of his two daughters were these the name of the firstborn Meera and the
the name of the firstborn Meera and the
the name of the firstborn Meera and the name of the younger Michael the name of
name of the younger Michael the name of
name of the younger Michael the name of Saul's wife was a hina the daughter of a
Saul's wife was a hina the daughter of a
Saul's wife was a hina the daughter of a Hamas and the name of the commander of
Hamas and the name of the commander of
Hamas and the name of the commander of his army was Abner the son of Noah
his army was Abner the son of Noah
his army was Abner the son of Noah Saul's uncle Kish was the father of soul
Saul's uncle Kish was the father of soul
Saul's uncle Kish was the father of soul and nur the father of Abner was the son
and nur the father of Abner was the son
and nur the father of Abner was the son of
of
of now there was fierce war with the
now there was fierce war with the
now there was fierce war with the Philistines all the days of soul and
Philistines all the days of soul and
Philistines all the days of soul and when Saul saw any strong man or any
when Saul saw any strong man or any
when Saul saw any strong man or any valiant man he took him for himself
valiant man he took him for himself
valiant man he took him for himself [Music]